# pod source for fbpdf man page. Convert with:
# pod2man --stderr -s1 -cSlackBuilds.org -r20140822 -u fbpdf.pod > fbpdf.1

=pod

=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

fbpdf - framebuffer pdf/djvu file viewer.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

fbpdf [options] filename

fbpdf2 [options] filename

fbdjvu [options] filename

=head1 DESCRIPTION

fbpdf is a framebuffer pdf/djvu file viewer.  It can use either
mupdf or poppler libraries for rendering pdf files and it uses
djvulibre library for rendering djvu files. Note that fbpdf
uses different binaries for each library.

=over 4

=item fbpdf

PDF viewer, using the mupdf rendering library.

=item fbpdf2

PDF viewer, using the poppler rendering library.

=item fbdjvu

DjVu viewer, using the djvulibre rendering library.

=back

All of the binaries take the same options and use the same
keystrokes.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-r> I<rotation>

Set rotation, in degrees. Same as B<r> keystroke.

=item B<-z> I<zoomx10>

Set default zoom (will be multiplied by 10). Same as B<z> keystroke.

=item B<-p> I<page>

Set starting page.

=back

=head1 KEYS

The following table describes the commands available in fbpdf.
Most of these commands accept a numerical prefix.  For instance,
'^F' tells fbpdf to go to the next page while '5^F' tells it to
move to the fifth next page.

=over 4

=item B<^F>, B<J>

next page

=item B<^B>, B<K>

previous page


=item B<G>

go to page (the last page if no prefix)

=item B<o>

set page number (for 'G' command only)

=item B<O>

set page number and go to current page

=item B<z>, B<=>

zoom; prefix multiplied by 10 (i.e. '12z' = 120%). Default 15.

=item B<+>

increase zoom by 10%

=item B<->

decrease zoom by 10%

=item B<r>

set rotation in degrees

=item B<i>

print info

=item B<q>

quit

=item B<^[>

(escape) clear numerical prefix

=item B<mx>

mark page as 'x' (or any other letter)

=item B<'x>

jump to the page marked as 'x'

=item B<`x>

jump to the page and position marked as 'x'

=item B<j>

scroll down

=item B<k>

scroll up

=item B<h>

scroll left

=item B<l>

scroll right

=item B<[>

align with the left edge of the page

=item B<]>

align with the right edge of the page

=item B<{>

align with the leftmost character on the page

=item B<}>

align with the rightmost character on the page

=item B<H>

show page top

=item B<M>

center the page vertically

=item B<L>

show page bottom

=item B<C>

center the page horizontally

=item B<' '>, B<^D>

(space) page down

=item B<^H>, B<^U>

(backspace) page up

=item B<^L>

redraw

=item B<e>

reload current file

=item B<f>

zoom to fit page height

=item B<w>

zoom to fit page width

=item B<W>

zoom to fit page contents horizontally

=item B<Z>

the default zoom level for 'z' command

=item B<d>

sleep one second before the next command

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

fbpdf was written by Ali Gholami Rudi (ali at rudi dot ir).

This man page created from fbpdf's README by B. Watson, for the
SlackBuilds.org project.
