.TH TO_PRO "1" "January 2011" "SlackBuilds.org" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
to_pro \- creates and copies files to Apple ProDOS disk images
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B to_pro
[\fI-size\fR]
[\fIfile\fR]
<\fIfile\fR ...>
.SH DESCRIPTION
to_pro is intended for use with the KEGS emulator.
.PP
to_pro creates a new ProDOS disk image called POOF1 in the current
directory, of the given size, containing the specified file(s). At
least one file must be given (to_pro cannot create a completely blank
image), and up to 51 file arguments are allowed.
.PP
The size argument is in kilobytes (1024 bytes each), and must be larger than the total size of
all the files (no checking is done, it's up to the user). ProDOS has a limit
of 32MB per partition, so the \-size argument should always less than
32767.
.PP
Long UNIX filenames are truncated to the 15\-character
ProDOS limit.
.PP
The author warns that the generated disk image files should only be used
temporarily, to copy files from the image to another ProDOS disk image
that was formatted within KEGS using ProDOS itself (or, the generated
image may be formatted within KEGS to create a proper blank disk image).
.PP
to_pro automatically sets the ProDOS filetype of files ending in ".shk"
to $E0.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
to_pro \-800 wolfdemo.bxy
Creates an 800KB disk image called POOF1, containing the file "wolfdemo.bxy"
(which is likely an Apple IIgs archive, downloaded from an FTP or web site).
Probably the next thing you will do be "mv POOF1 wolfdemo.dsk".
.TP
to_pro \-4096 wolfdemo.bxy
Same as above, but creates a 4MB POOF1 image file instead.
.TP
to_pro \-32000 *.shk
put all *.shk files in the current Unix directory into a 31.25MB
image called POOF1.
.SH SEE ALSO
xkegs(1)
.br
partls(1)
.PP
More information on to_pro in /usr/doc/kegs\-@VERSION@/README.kegs.txt
.SH AUTHORS
KEGS and to_pro are by Kent Dickey <kadickey at princeton dot edu>.
.PP
This manual page was written by B. Watson for the SlackBuilds.org project (but
may be used by anyone for any reason).
