.TH KEGS "1" "January 2011" "SlackBuilds.org" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
xkegs \- Apple IIgs emulator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xkegs
[\fI-options\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
KEGS (Kent's Emulated GS)
is an Apple IIgs emulator for Mac OS X, Linux, and Win32. The Apple
IIgs was the most powerful computer in the Apple II line. It first was
sold in 1986. An Apple IIgs has the capability to run almost all Apple
II, Apple IIe, and Apple IIc programs.
.PP
xkegs is the KEGS binary, compiled for Linux and X\-Window support.
.PP
This manual page only documents the command\-line options and key mappings.
For the full documentation, see /usr/doc/kegs\-@VERSION@/README.kegs.txt
(and the other files in the same directory).
.PP
\fINote:\fR There is no way to specify disk or ROM images on the command line.
Use the configuration menu (F4) from within the emulator to select images.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-skip\fR \fI[num]\fR
KEGS will "skip" that many screen redraws between refreshes.
\-skip 0 will do 60 frames per second, \-skip 1 will do 30 fps,
\-skip 5 will do 10 fps.
.TP
\fB\-audio\fR \fI[0/1]\fR
Forces audio [off/on].  By default, audio is on unless
the X display is a remote machine or shared memory is off.
This switch can override the default.  \-audio 0 causes KEGS to
not fork the background audio process, but Ensoniq emulation
is still 100% accurate, just the sound is not sent to the
workstation speaker.
.TP
\fB\-arate\fR \fI[num]\fR
Forces audio sample rate to \fI[num]\fR.  44100 and 48000 are
usual, you can try 22050 to reduce KEGS's overhead.  On a reasonably
fast machine (>250MHz or so), you shouldn't need to mess with this.
.TP
\fB\-dhr140\fR
Will use the old Double\-hires color algorithm that results in
exactly 140 colors across the screen, as opposed to the blending
being done by default.
.TP
\fB\-15\fR
KEGS will only look for a 15\-bit X\-Window display.
.TP
\fB\-16\fR
KEGS will only look for a 16\-bit X\-Window display (not tested, probably
 will get red colors wrong).
.TP
\fB\-24\fR
KEGS will only look for a 24\-bit X\-Window display.
.TP
\fB\-display\fR \fI[xdisplay]\fR
Same as setting the environment variable DISPLAY.
Sends X display to \fI[xdisplay]\fR
.TP
\fB\-noshm\fR
KEGS will not try to used shared memory for the X graphics display.
This will make KEGS much slower on graphics\-intensive tasks,
by as much as a factor of 10!  By default, \-noshm causes an
effective \-skip of 3 which is 15 fps.  You can override this
default by specifying a \-skip explicitly.
.SH KEY BINDINGS
.TP
\fBF1\fR
Alias of Command
.TP
\fBF2\fR
Alias of Option
.TP
\fBF3\fR
Alias of ESC for OS/2 compatibility.
.TP
\fBF4\fR
Configuration Panel
.TP
\fBF6\fR
Toggle through the 4 speeds:
Unlimited, 1MHz, 2.8MHz, 8.0MHz
.TP
\fBShift\-F6\fR
Enter KEGS debugger (can also be done by center\-clicking the mouse on
the xkegs window).
.br
The debugger is X\-based, and runs in a separate window.
.TP
\fBF7\fR
Toggle fast_disk_emul on/off
.TP
\fBF8\fR
Toggle pointer hiding on/off.
.TP
\fBF9\fR
Invert the sense of the joystick.
.TP
\fBShift\-F9\fR
Swap x and y joystick/paddle axes.
.TP
\fBF10\fR
Attempt to change the a2vid_palette (only useful on 256\-color displays)
.TP
\fBF11\fR
Full screen mode (only on Mac OS X).
.TP
\fBF12\fR
Alias of Pause/Break which is treated as Reset
.TP
\fBF2\fR, \fBAlt_R\fR, \fBMeta_r\fR, \fBMenu\fR, \fBPrint\fR, \fBMode_switch\fR, \fBOption\fR
Option key
.TP
\fBF1\fR, \fBAlt_L\fR, \fBMeta_L\fR, \fBCancel\fR, \fBScroll_lock\fR, \fBCommand\fR
Command key
.TP
\fBNum_Lock\fR
Keypad "Clear".
.TP
\fBF12\fR, \fBPause\fR, \fBBreak\fR
Reset
.TP
\fBHome\fR
Alias for "=" on the keypad
.SH FILES
.TP
\fB~/.config.kegs\fR
The KEGS configuration file. This can be directly edited if
necessary, but normally is changed by using the configuration
menu (F4) from within KEGS. To return to the default configuration,
you may remove this file.
.TP
\fB/usr/share/kegs/rom03\fR (or \fB/usr/share/kegs/rom01\fR)
The Apple IIgs BIOS ROM image. If KEGS can't find this ROM, it
will start up with a black display, full of white @ characters.
Press F4 for the config menu and use the UI to select the correct
ROM image file.
.PP
For reference, the ROM image details are:
.PP
\fBrom03\fR: size 262144 bytes, md5sum ba89edf2729a28a17cd9e0f7a0ac9a39
.br
\fBrom01\fR: size 131072 bytes, md5sum 20a0334c447cb069a040ae5be1d938df
.PP
Other versions of the IIgs ROMs may exist (this author isn't aware of any),
but these two images are known to work.
.TP
\fB/usr/bin/xkegs\fR
Wrapper script. xkegs will fail to run if it can't find its config file,
so this script creates one in the user's home directory if necessary,
then runs the real xkegs binary.
.TP
\fB/usr/libexec/xkegs\fR
Actual xkegs binary. Shouldn't be run directly (use the wrapper instead).
.TP
\fB/usr/share/kegs/config.kegs.default\fR
Copied to \fB~/.config.kegs\fR by the wrapper script, if \fB~/.config.kegs\fR
doesn't already exist. Can be used to set system\-wide defaults (such as the
path to the ROM image).
.SH SEE ALSO
to_pro(1)
.br
partls(1)
.br
Full KEGS docs in /usr/doc/kegs\-@VERSION@/*.txt
.br
KEGS homepage at http://kegs.sourceforge.net/
.SH AUTHORS
KEGS is by Kent Dickey <kadickey at princeton dot edu>.
.PP
This manual page was written by B. Watson for the SlackBuilds.org project (but
may be used by anyone for any reason).
.PP
Wrapper script also by B. Watson.
