.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH EXICYCLOG 8 "March 26, 2003"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.\" \(oqthis text is enclosed in single quotes\(cq
.\" \(lqthis text is enclosed in double quotes\(rq
.SH NAME
exicyclog \- Cycle exim's logfiles
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B eximcyclog
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B exicyclog
script can be used to cycle (rotate)
.I mainlog
and
.I rejectlog
files.
This is not necessary if only syslog is being used.
Some operating systems have their own standard mechanisms for log cycling,
and these can be used instead of
.B exicyclog
if preferred.

Each time
.B exicyclog
is run the file names get \(oqshuffled down\(cq by one.
If the main log file name is mainlog (the default) then when
.B exicyclog
is run mainlog becomes mainlog.01, the previous mainlog.01 becomes mainlog.02
and so on, up to a limit which is set in the script, and which defaults to 10.
Reject logs are handled similarly.

If no mainlog file exists, the script does nothing.
Files that \(oqdrop off\(cq the end are deleted.
All files with numbers greater than 01 are compressed, using a compression
command which is configured by the COMPRESS_COMMAND setting in
Local/Makefile.
It is usual to run \(lqexicyclog\(rq daily from a root \(lqcrontab\(rq entry
of the form

  1 0 * * * su exim \-c /usr/exim/bin/exicyclog

assuming you have used the name \(oqexim\(cq for the Exim user.
You can run
.B exicyclog
as root if you wish, but there is no need.


.SH BUGS
This manual page needs a major re-work. If somebody knows better groff
than us and has more experience in writing manual pages, any patches
would be greatly appreciated.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR exim (8)

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was stitched together from spec.txt by
Andreas Metzler <ametzler at downhill.at.eu.org>,
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
