.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH EXIGREP 8 "March 26, 2003"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.\" \(oqthis text is enclosed in single quotes\(cq
.\" \(lqthis text is enclosed in double quotes\(rq
.SH NAME
EXIGREP \- Search Exim's main log
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B exigrep
.I [\-l] pattern [log file] ...

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B exigrep
utility is a Perl script that searches one or more main log files for
entries that match a given pattern.
When it finds a match, it extracts all the log entries for the relevant
message, not just those that match the pattern.
Thus,
.B exigrep
can extract complete log entries for a given message, or all mail for a given
user, or for a given host, for example.

The
.I \-l
flag means \(oqliteral\(cq, that is, treat all characters in the pattern as
standing for themselves.
Otherwise the pattern must be a Perl regular expression.
The pattern match is case-insensitive.
If no file names are given on the command line, the standard input is
read.

If the location of a
.B zcat
command is known from the definition of ZCAT_COMMAND in Local/Makefile,
.B exigrep
automatically passes any file whose
name ends in COMPRESS_SUFFIX through
.B zcat
as it searches it.

.SH BUGS
This manual page needs a major re-work. If somebody knows better groff
than us and has more experience in writing manual pages, any patches
would be greatly appreciated.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR exim (8),
.BR perlre (1)


.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was stitched together from spec.txt by
Andreas Metzler <ametzler at downhill.at.eu.org>,
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
