.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH EXIM_CHECKACCESS 8 "March 26, 2003"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.\" \(oqthis text is enclosed in single quotes\(cq
.\" \(lqthis text is enclosed in double quotes\(rq
.SH NAME
exim_checkaccess \- Check address acceptance from given IP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B exim_checkaccess
.I IP-address email@address [more Exim options]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Exim's
.I \-bh
command line argument allows you to run a fake SMTP session with debugging
output, in order to check what Exim is doing when it is applying policy
controls to incoming SMTP mail.
However, not everybody is sufficiently familiar with the SMTP protocol to
be able to make full use of \-bh, and sometimes you just want to answer the
question \(lqDoes this address have access?\(rq without bothering with any
further details.

The
.B exim_checkaccess
utility is a \(oqpackaged\(cq version of
.I \-bh.
It takes two arguments, an IP address and an email address:

  exim_checkaccess 10.9.8.7 A.User@a.domain.example

The utility runs a call to
.B Exim
with the \-bh option, to test whether the given email address would be
accepted in a RCPT command in a TCP/IP connection from the host with the
given IP address.
The output of the utility is either the word \(oqaccepted\(cq, or the SMTP error
response, for example:

  Rejected:
    550 Relay not permitted

When running this test, the utility uses \(lq<>\(rq as the envelope sender
address for the MAIL command, but you can change this by providing additional
options.  These are passed directly to the Exim command.
For example, to specify that the test is to be run with the sender address
\(lqhimself@there.example\(rq you can use:

  exim_checkaccess 10.9.8.7 A.User@a.domain.example \\
                   \-f himself@there.example

Note that these additional Exim command line items must be given after the
two mandatory arguments.

.SH BUGS
This manual page needs a major re-work. If somebody knows better groff
than us and has more experience in writing manual pages, any patches
would be greatly appreciated.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR exim (8)

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was stitched together from spec.txt by
Andreas Metzler <ametzler at downhill.at.eu.org>,
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
