.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH EXIMON 8 "March 26, 2003"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.\" \(oqthis text is enclosed in single quotes\(cq
.\" \(lqthis text is enclosed in double quotes\(rq
.SH NAME
eximon \- Monitor Exim
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B eximon

.SH DESCRIPTION
The Exim monitor is an application which displays in an X window information
about the state of 
.B Exim's
queue and what
.B Exim is doing.
An admin user can perform certain operations on messages from this GUI
interface; however all such facilities are also available from the command
line, and indeed, the monitor itself makes use of the command line to
perform any actions requested.

.SH BUGS
This manual page needs a major re-work. If somebody knows better groff
than us and has more experience in writing manual pages, any patches
would be greatly appreciated.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR exim (8).
Eximon is documented extensivly in the
.B specification of the exim mail transfer agent.

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was stitched together from spec.txt by
Andreas Metzler <ametzler at downhill.at.eu.org>,
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
