.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH EXINEXT 8 "March 26, 2003"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.\" \(oqthis text is enclosed in single quotes\(cq
.\" \(lqthis text is enclosed in double quotes\(rq
.SH NAME
exinext \- Finding individual retry times
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B exinext
.I address|message-id

.SH DESCRIPTION
A utility called
.B exinext
(mostly a Perl script) provides the ability to fish specific information
out of the retry database.
Given a mail domain (or a complete address), it looks up the hosts for
that domain, and outputs any retry information for the hosts or for the
domain.
At present, the retry information is obtained by running
.B exim_dumpdb
(see below) and processing the output.
For example:

  exinext piglet@milne.fict.example
  kanga.milne.fict.example:192.168.8.1 error 146: Connection refused
    first failed: 21-Feb-1996 14:57:34
    last tried:   21-Feb-1996 14:57:34
    next try at:  21-Feb-1996 15:02:34
  roo.milne.fict.example:192.168.8.3 error 146: Connection refused
    first failed: 20-Jan-1996 13:12:08
    last tried:   21-Feb-1996 11:42:03
    next try at:  21-Feb-1996 19:42:03
    past final cutoff time

You can also give
.B exinext
a local part, without a domain, and it will give any retry information for
that local part in your default domain.
A message id can be used to obtain retry information pertaining to a
specific message.
This exists only when an attempt to deliver a message to a remote host
suffers a message-specific error (see section 42.2).
.B exinext
is not particularly efficient, but then it isn't expected to be run very often.

.SH BUGS
This manual page needs a major re-work. If somebody knows better groff
than us and has more experience in writing manual pages, any patches
would be greatly appreciated.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR exim (8)

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was stitched together from spec.txt by
Andreas Metzler <ametzler at downhill.at.eu.org>,
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
