.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH EXIQSUMM 8 "March 26, 2003"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.\" \(oqthis text is enclosed in single quotes\(cq
.\" \(lqthis text is enclosed in double quotes\(rq
.SH NAME
exiqsumm \- Summarising the queue
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B exiqsumm
.I [\-a] [\-c]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B exiqsumm
utility is a Perl script which reads the output of
.I exim \-bp
and produces a summary of the messages on the queue.
Thus, you use it by running a command such as

  exim \-bp | exiqsumm

The output consists of one line for each domain that has messages waiting
for it, as in the following example:

    3   2322   74m   66m  msn.com.example

This lists the number of messages for the domain, their total volume, and
the length of time that the oldest and the newest messages have been
waiting.
By default the output is sorted on the domain name, but
.B exiqsumm
has the options
.I \-a
and
.I \-c,
which cause the output to be sorted by oldest message and by count of
messages, respectively.

The output of
.I exim \-bp
contains the original addresses in the message, so this also applies to
the output from
.B exiqsumm.
No domains from addresses generated by aliasing or forwarding are included
(unless the \(lqone_time\(rq option of the redirect router has been used to
convert them into \(oqtop level\(cq addresses).

.SH BUGS
This manual page needs a major re-work. If somebody knows better groff
than us and has more experience in writing manual pages, any patches
would be greatly appreciated.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR exim (8)

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was stitched together from spec.txt by
Andreas Metzler <ametzler at downhill.at.eu.org>,
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
