# pod source for sms_sdl man page. convert with:
# pod2man --stderr -s6 -r0.9.4a-r7.1 -cSlackBuilds.org sms_sdl.pod > sms_sdl.6

=pod

=head1 NAME

sms_sdl - Sega Master System and Game Gear emulator.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<sms_sdl> [I<--options>] I<<filename.<SMS|GG>>>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

SMS Plus/SDL is an emulator for the Sega Master System and Sega Game
Gear video game consoles.

=head1 OPTIONS

I<Note:> The filename may appear anywhere on the command line.

=over 4

=item B<--fm> 

Enable YM2413 sound.

=item B<--japan>

Set the machine type as DOMESTIC instead of OVERSEAS.

=item B<--usesram>

Load/save SRAM contents before starting/exiting.

=item B<--fskip> <n>

Specify the number of frames to skip.

=item B<--fullspeed>

Do not limit to 60 frames per second.

=item B<--fullscreen>

Start in fullscreen mode.

=item B<--joystick>

Use joystick.

=item B<--nosound>

Disable sound.

=item B<--filter> <mode>

Scales the display to 200% size. Available modes:

=over 4

=item 2xsai

=item super2xsai

=item supereagle

=item advmame2x

=item tv2x

=item 2x

=item bilinear

=item dotmatrix

=back

Note that the B<1> to B<8> keys can be used to change the filter
while the emulator is running, but I<only> if it was started
with the B<--filter> option.

=back

=head1 KEYBOARD

=over 4

=item B<F1> 

Save screenshot in BMP format (in B<~/.sms_sdl>).

=item B<F2> 

Save state.

=item B<F3> 

Load state.

=item B<F4/F5>

Decrease/increase frame skip value.

=item B<F6/F7>

Decrease/increase state slot.

=item B<1..8> 

Switch rendering filter. Only works if the emulator was started
with the B<--filter> option.

=item B<C> 

Controller button 1.

=item B<V> 

Controller button 2.

=item B<ENTER>

Start (GG) / pause (SMS).

=item B<ARROWS>

Directional pad.

=item B<TAB>

Console hard reset.

=back

The key bindings may not be remapped.

=head1 FILES

ROM image files may be in raw dump format, or may have a header
(details are system-specific). Also, ROM images may be zipped (not
gzipped), in which case the first file in the zip file's directory
that matches I<*.sms>, I<*.gg>, I<*.rom>, I<*.bin> (case-insensitive)
will be used as the ROM image. Other files are ignored. If nothing
in the zip file matches, the first file in the zip directory will
be used.

B<sms_sdl> looks at the filename to determine the type of ROM image
in use. Any file whose name ends in I<.gg> (case-insensitive match) is
considered to be a Game Gear ROM. Any other file is treated as a Sega
Master System ROM. In the case of a zipped image, this refers to the
file inside the zip file; the zip file itself doesn't have any special
naming requirements.

Screenshot filenames (B<F1> key) are generated by replacing the filename
extension with I<-NNN.bmp>, where NNN is a 3-digit number (000 for the
first screenshot, 001 for the second, etc). The numbering starts at 000
every time the emulator is started, and existing files will be overwritten
without confirmation.

State save filenames (B<F2> key) are generated by replacing the filename
extension with I<.stN>, where N is the number of the save slot (one or
more digits). Again, existing files are overwritten without confirmation.

Screenshots and savestates are stored in I<~/.sms_sdl>.

=head1 CONFIG FILE

B<sms_sdl> is launched by a shell script wrapper which reads the file
I<~/.sms_sdl/config> if it exists. Any of the options above may be
placed in this file (one option per line, with or without the leading
B<--> characters). These options will be passed as command-line
arguments to the real B<sms_sdl> binary every time it runs. Any
arguments passed to the script will appear after the ones read from
the config file.

If there's no I<~/.sms_sdl/config>, a default one will be created,
which enables B<--joystick>, B<--fm>, and B<--filter 2x>.

See B</usr/doc/sms_sdl-VERSION/sample_config> for further information.

=head1 PATCHES

This build of B<sms_sdl> has been patched to add the following features and fixes:

=over 4

=item -

The B<--fm> and B<--japan> options now work (patch by Ellington Santos).

=item -

B<sms_sdl> can be built and will run on x86_64 systems (patch by B. Watson).

=item -

The emulator no longer segfaults when the ROM filename doesn't contain a dot (patch by B. Watson).

=item -

ROM filename can appear anywhere on the command line, before or after options (patch by B. Watson).

=item -

Wrapper script, supports config file and snapshots/savestates in ~/.sms_sdl (script by B. Watson).

=back

=head1 LIMITATIONS

=over 4

=item -

There are no controls mapped for the player 2 controller. Only one
joystick is supported, and the keyboard only has player 1 mappings.

=item -

The only supported resolutions are tiny, by modern desktop PC
standards. By default, SMS games run at 256x192 and GG games run at
160x144. With B<--filter>, the window/screen size is doubled: 512x384
and 320x288.

=back

=head1 AUTHORS

The original SMS is (C) Charles Mac Donald in 1998, 1999, 2000.

SDL Version by Gregory Montoir (cyx@frenchkiss.net).

This man page by B. Watson, for the SlackBuilds.org project.
