# pod source for d52 man page
# pod2man -s1 -r3.4.1 --stderr -nD52 -cSlackBuilds.org < d52.pod > d52.1

=pod

=head1 NAME

d52 - disassembler for Intel 8052/8051/8031/etc

d48 - disassembler for Intel 8048 and 8041

dz80 - disassembler for Zilog Z80, Intel 8080 and 8085

=head1 SYNOPSIS

d52 I<options> B<filename>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Full documentation may be found in I</usr/doc/d52-3.4.1/d52manual.html>
and I</usr/doc/d52-3.4.1/dz80-d48addendum.html>.

=head1 OPTIONS

Options may be entered Unix style (-d) or DOS style (/b).

Options may be entered in a freeform fashion as long as a dash (-) or
a slash (/) precedes any option that precedes the filename.
Examples:

	d52 filename bd
	d52 -d filename x100
	d52 /h filename d -x100

=head2 Common Options

These options are supported by d52, d48, and dz80.

=over

=item B<-b>

disassemble file with .bin extension.

=item B<-h>

disassemble file with .hex extension. If neither 'b' nor 'h' is specified, first search for a .hex file, and if not found, then a .bin file

=item B<-a>

use ascii macro instead of db/defb for text.

=item B<-d>

include address and data in the comment field.

=item B<-n>

use C style for hexadecimal operands

=item B<-p>

put dot '.' at beginning of pseudo ops

=item B<-s>

use 'defb' and 'defw' instead of 'db' and 'dw' for binary data.

=item B<-u>

output labels, symbols, and mnemonics in upper case.

=back

=head2 D52 Options

=over

=item B<-i>

put statement in output file to include 'sfr52.inc'.

=item B<-k>

disassemble for Keil A51 (obsolete).

=item B<-x>

add a hexadecimal offset to file addresses.

=item B<-z[filename]>

read cycle count file. Cycle count files are installed to /usr/share/d52/ in this build.
See /usr/doc/d52-3.4.1/cycle_counting.htm for more information.

=item B<-t>

trace and analyze code before disassembly. will overwrite any existing ctl file for the file being disassembled.

=back

=head2 D48 Options

=over

=item B<-1>

disassemble 8041 code (note, this is the numeral one, not the lowercase letter L).

=back

=head2 DZ80 Options

=over

=item B<-c>

disassemble CP/M .com file (implies -x100).

=item B<-t>

trace and analyze code before disassembly. will overwrite any existing ctl file for the file being disassembled.

=item B<-x>

add a hexadecimal offset to file addresses.

=item B<-80>

generate 8080 mnemonics.

=item B<-85>

generate 8085 mnemonics.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

d52, d48, and dz80 are copyright (C) 1995-2007 by J. L. Post.

This man page was written by B. Watson for the SlackBuilds.org project. It
may be used by anyone.
