.. RST source for cp437(1) man page. Convert with:
..   rst2man.py cp437.rst > cp437.1
.. rst2man.py comes from the SBo development/docutils package.

.. |version| replace:: 0.6
.. |date| date::

=====
cp437
=====

-----------------------------------------
emulate code page 437 on a UTF-8 terminal
-----------------------------------------

:Manual section: 1
:Manual group: SlackBuilds.org
:Date: |date|
:Version: |version|

SYNOPSIS
========

cp437 **command** [*arg* [*arg* ...]]

DESCRIPTION
===========

cp437 is a program to emulate an old-style "code page 437" / "IBM-PC"
character set terminal on a modern terminal emulator that uses UTF-8
or similar.

It was written for the purpose of running the BitchX IRC client, which utilises
CP437 line-drawing characters in its default theme and artwork.  It should
also be broadly useful for things like viewing CP437 "ANSI art", running
nethack with the IBMgraphics option or running EPIC with scripts that use CP437
artwork.

It takes no command line options. The only arguments are the command to run
and its arguments (if any).

You'll need to have your LANG or LC_CTYPE environment variable
set up to match the character set used by your terminal
emulator. On Slackware, this can be done system-wide by editing
**/etc/profile.d/lang.sh**, or by editing your shell's startup scripts
(e.g. **~/.bash_profile**).

EXAMPLES
========

Just run cp437 followed by the command and argument you want to run:

  cp437 BitchX irc.efnet.org

To convert a text file from codepage 437, you might try:

  cp437 cat orig.txt > converted.txt

COPYRIGHT
=========

See the file /usr/doc/cp437-|version|/COPYRIGHT for license information.

AUTHORS
=======

cp437 was written by Kevin Easton.

This man page written for the SlackBuilds.org project
by B. Watson, and is licensed under the WTFPL.

SEE ALSO
========

The cp437 homepage: https://github.com/keaston/cp437
