dante (a free SOCKS client and server)

Dante is a product developed by Inferno Nettverk A/S. It consists of
a SOCKS server and a SOCKS client, implementing RFC 1928 and related
standards. It is a flexible product that can be used to provide
convenient and secure network connectivity.

The Dante SOCKS server interoperates with many popular network
applications which already have SOCKS support built in to them,
such as most web-browsers, instant messaging programs, and many
others. Dante is released under a BSD/CMU-type license and comes with
complete source code.

Extensive documentation is available at the Dante web site:

https://www.inet.no/dante/doc/

Slackware-specific notes:

If libupnp is installed, Dante will be built with UPNP support.

If you want to start sockd as a daemon on boot, start it from
/etc/rc.d/rc.local. There's no init script provided with the package.
This may change in the future, if there's enough interest (email the
maintainer).

No config files are installed by default. Sample config
files are in /usr/doc/dante-$VERSION/example/, and also as
/etc/sock[ds].conf.example. Dante can be used as a client without a
config file (by setting SOCKS_SERVER in the environment, e.g.), but
more fine-grained control is possible with /etc/socks.conf. Dante
won't be very useful as a server (sockd) without a config file, so
copy one of the sockd example configs to /etc/sockd.conf if you're
going to run a server.

Dante supports LDAP authentication, but the SlackBuild author hasn't
tested building the support for it. The Dante configure script says
you'll need to install "Kerberos/SASL/GSSAPI/LDAP" for this to work
(and it should be autodetected, if everything is installed). If you
try this, please email the maintainer with your results (success,
failure, anything extra you had to do to make it work).

The build doesn't include the "licensed modules" (purchase required)
and there is no provision for adding them. These include the bandwidth
and redirect modules.
