.TH ADIR "1" "April 2007" "adir (atarisio 0.30)" "HiassofT Atari 8-bit Tools"
.SH NAME
adir \- print the directory of an Atari DOS floppy disk image

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B adir
[\fB\-\fR\fI<columns>\fR] [\fB\-r\fR] [\fB\-t\fR] \fIimage-filename\fR [\fI...\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
adir prints the directory of one or more DOS 2.x or MyDOS floppy images
(ATR, XFD, or DCM (DiskComm) format). Output resembles the output of the Atari DOS
\fBA\fR command. Single, enhanced 1050, double, and high-capacity
(hard disk) images are supported.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\fR\fI<columns>\fR
Number of columns for output format. Default is \fB\-4\fR. This option is
ignored if \fB\-r\fR is given.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR
Raw format: list the contents of all directory entries that have been used,
including those containing deleted files. Output consists of 6 columns:
.sp 1
.PD 0
.RS
.IP "File number"
.IP "Status flags (in hex)"
.IP "File name (8 characters)"
.IP "File extension (3 characters)"
.IP "Starting sector"
.IP "File size in sectors"
.RE
.PD 1
.
.TP
\fB-t\fR
Recursively print directory tree of image. Only useful for MyDOS-formatted
disk images.
.TP
\fIimage-filename\fR [\fI...\fR]
One or more Atari DOS or MyDOS-compatible disk image files
(ATR, XFD, or DCM format). SpartaDOS-formatted images are \fBnot\fR supported.

.SH
AUTHOR
Matthias Reichl <\fBhias@horus.com\fR>
.PP
Man page by B. Watson <\fBurchlay@urchlay.com\fB>

.SH
SEE ALSO
\&\fIatariserver\fR\|(1), \&\fIatarixfer\fR\|(1), \&\fIdir2atr\fR\|(1).
.PP
AtariSIO home page: \fBhttp://www.horus.com/~hias/atari/\fR
