.TH ATARIXFER "1" "April 2007" "atarixfer (atarisio 0.30)" "HiassofT Atari 8-bit Tools"
.SH NAME
\fBatarixfer\fR \- read or write from an Atari disk drive, via 1050-2-PC or APE ProSystem cable

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B atarixfer
[\fB\-f\fR \fIdevice\fR] [\fB\-p\fR] [\fB\-r\fR \fIimagefile\fR] [\fB\-w\fR \fIimagefile\fR] [\fB\-d\fR] [\fB\-\fR<\fIdrive\fR>]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBatarixfer\fR can either write a disk image file to a real Atari disk drive,
or read a disk from an Atari drive and write its contents to an image file.
A 1050-2-PC or APE ProSystem cable is required.
.PP
\fBatarixfer\fR only supports whole-disk transfers, to or from a
disk image file. Reading/writing single files or individual sectors
is not possible.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-f\fR \fIdevice\fR
Use alternative AtariSIO device (default: \fI/dev/atarisio0\fR)
.TP
\fB-p\fR
Use APE ProSystem cable (default: 1050-2-PC cable)
.TP
\fB-r\fR \fIimagefile\fR
Read from Atari disk and create an image of its contents. The type of
image to create is decided by looking at the filename, which should end
in \fI.atr\fR, \fI.xfd\fR, or \fI.dcm\fR (case-insensitive). If the
filename doesn't match any of these, ATR image format is assumed.
.TP
\fB-r\fR \fIimagefile\fR
Write a disk image to the drive.
.TP
\fB-d\fR
Enable debugging output.
.TP
[\fB\-\fR<\fIdrive\fR>]
Use drive number (1..8). Default is \fB-1\fR. The drive number must
match the drive number switches on the Atari drive.

.SH
AUTHOR
Matthias Reichl <\fBhias@horus.com\fR>
.PP
Man page by B. Watson <\fBurchlay@urchlay.com\fB>

.SH
SEE ALSO
\&\fIatariserver\fR\|(1), \&\fIdir2atr\fR\|(1), \&\fIadir\fR\|(1).
.PP
AtariSIO home page: \fBhttp://www.horus.com/~hias/atari/\fR
