.TH ATARISERVER "1" "April 2007" "atariserver (atarisio 0.30)" "HiassofT Atari 8-bit Tools"
.SH
NAME
\fBatariserver\fR \- SIO server (peripheral emulator) for Atari 8\-bit computers, for use with an SIO2PC cable

.SH
SYNOPSIS
.B atariserver
[\fB\-h\fR]
[\fB\-f\fR \fIdevice\fR]
[\fB\-c\fR]
[\fB\-C\fR]
[\fB\-m\fR]
[\fB\-o\fR \fIfile\fR]
[\fB\-p\fR]
[\fB\-s\fR]
[\fB\-S\fR]
[\fB\-X\fR]
[\fB\-t\fR]
[\fB\-<1-8>\fR]
[\fB\-V\fR \fIdensity\fR \fIdir\fR]
[\fB\-P\fR \fIconv\fR \fIpath\fR]
[\fBfilename\fR]
[\fI...\fR]

.SH
DESCRIPTION
\fBatariserver\fR emulates Atari 8\-bit peripherals using the \fBSIO\fR
protocol, including disk drives, printers, and cassette tape decks.

This manual page only documents the command\-line options to
\fBatariserver\fR. For more information, including a description of
the user interface and the command set
for remote command support, see the \fBREADME\fR
file for AtariSIO, possibly located in /usr/doc/atarisio or
/usr/share/doc/atarisio.

.SH
OPTIONS
Most options can be set from within \fBatariserver\fR's curses\-based
user interface while the program is running.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR
Displays command line help message
.TP
\fB-f\fR \fIdevice\fR
Sets the AtariSIO device. This option is only needed if you
configured the kernel driver to support more than one interface.
.IP
\fINote:\fR this must be the very first command line option, otherwise
it will be ignored!
.IP
Without this option, \fBatariserver\fR will check if the environment
variable \fBATARISERVER_DEVICE\fR is set. If not, the default device
\fB/dev/atarisio0\fR will be used.

.TP
\fB\-c\fR
Tells AtariSIO that your Atari is connected via an alternative
SIO2PC cable. The standard SIO2PC cable uses the RI pin for
command line input. Some Windows SIO emulators use a slightly
modified SIO2PC cable, using DSR instead of RI. If you are not
sure what kind of SIO2PC cable you have, just try starting
atariserver with and without the \fB\-c\fR switch and test if your
Atari can boot from atariserver.
.IP
\fINote:\fR there's no performance benefit using the DSR line instead
of the RI line; both cables work identically with AtariSIO.

.TP
\fB\-C\fR
Similar to \fB\-c\fR except that the CTS pin is used. This is
quite useful for testing purposes: connect two PCs with a
nullmodem\-cable, start \fBatariserver\fR with \fB\-C\fR on one machine
and \fBatarixfer\fR with \fB\-p\fR on the other.

.TP
\fB\-m\fR
Monochrome mode: disable colors, even if your terminal
reports color support.

.TP
\fB\-o\fR \fIfile\fR
Set trace file: all output displayed in the log window will
also be saved to the specified file.

.TP
\fB\-p\fR
Loads the next image with "write protect" enabled. This
option is only valid for the next image; if you want to load
multiple write protected images, you have to specify this
options before each filename.

.TP
\fB\-s\fR
Disables high speed (57600 bit/sec) SIO support. It sets
the baudrate to fixed 19200 bit/sec and also disables several
special commands like "get ultraspeed byte" or "flush disk"
that are only supported by high-speed drives like the
1050 speedy. Read the list of SIO commands at the end of the
README for more details.

.TP
\fB\-S\fR
High speed (57600 bit/sec) mode with pauses between bytes.
This is needed for some high speed SIO routines which are too
slow to handle sustained 57600 bit/sec transfers. The effective
speed will be approx. 48000 bit/sec.

.TP
\fB\-X\fR
Enable XF551 compatibility mode. In XF551 mode \fBatariserver\fR
reacts to commands with the 7th bit set and automatically
switches to 38400 bit/sec transfer mode. Additionally, the
GetStatus command sets both bit 7 and 6 in case of an QD
(double sided, double density, 1440 sectors) disk, just like
the XF551.

.TP
\fB\-t\fR
Increases the trace level. You may use this option up to
three times if you want more output.

.TP
\fB\-1\fR \fIthrough\fR \fB\-8\fR
Set the drive number for the next image file. The default is 1 for the
first image, and is incremented for each subsequent image. See \fBNOTES\fR
below for an example.

.TP
\fB\-V\fR \fIdensity\fR \fIdir\fR
Create virtual device of given density, using files from directory \fIdir\fR.
\fIdensity\fR is one of:
.IP
\fBs\fR (single density, 720 sectors),
.IP
\fBd\fR (double density, 720 sectors),
.IP
\fBe\fR (1050 "enhanced" density, 1040 sectors),
.IP
\fInumber\fR\fBs\fR (single density, \fInumber\fR sectors, e.g. \fB1440s\fR),
.IP
\fInumber\fR\fBd\fR (double density, \fInumber\fR sectors, e.g. \fB1440d\fR),
.IP
\fBS\fR (single density, the number of sectors needed to store all files is automatically calculated)
.IP
\fBD\fR (double density, like \fBS\fR)
.TP
\fB\-P\fR \fIconv\fR \fIpath\fR
Install printer handler.
.IP
\fIconv\fR is EOL conversion: \fBr\fR=raw(no conversion), \fBl\fR=LF (UN*X), \fBc\fR=CR+LF (DOS/Windows)
.IP
\fIpath\fR is either a filename or \fI|print-command\fR, eg \fB|lpr\fR
.IP
\fINote:\fR Most shells require you to quote \fIpath\fR if it contains a pipe (|) character. To use the standard unix print service, use: \fB-P l "|lpr"\fR

.TP
\fIfilename\fR
One or more image files, which should be either ATR or XFD format Atari
8\-bit disk images. Image filenames may be interleaved with \fB\-[1\-8]\fR
and/or \fB-p\fR options. Images may be in any Atari\-compatible DOS or
boot disk format; \fBatariserver\fR simply serves them to the Atari,
without interpreting the contents.

.SH
NOTES
To load several images you could start atariserver with
the following options (for example):

.br
atariserver dos.atr -3 -p data1.atr -V d filedir
.br

This will load dos.atr into D1:, data1.atr into D3: and create
a virtual drive in double density (720 sectors) out of the
directory filedir. Furthermore, D1: and D4: will be writable,
whereas D3: will be write protected.

If you set the environment variable ATRPATH, \fBatariserver\fR will look
for image files in the specified (colon separated) directories
if the image can't be found in the current working directory.
ATRPATH works both on the command line and in the user interface.
For example:

export ATRPATH=/home/atari/dos:/data/xl/magazines

or (for csh users):
setenv ATRPATH /home/atari/dos:/data/xl/magazines

.SH
KERNEL SUPPORT

\fBatariserver\fR requires the \fBatarisio\fR kernel module (driver) to
be loaded. If you receive an "error opening /dev/atarisio0" message,
try loading the module (as \fBroot\fR):

.br
/sbin/modprobe atarisio port=/dev/ttyS0
.PP
Replace ttyS0 with whichever serial port has the SIO2PC cable attached.
If the module refuses to load, you may have to "modprobe 8250" first.

.SH
SUPPORTED HARDWARE

\fBatariserver\fR works with most common one-chip RS232 (serial port)
SIO2PC designs, including the AtariMax "smart" SIO2PC by Steven Tucker,
and designs based on the 1489/14C89 and Max232/233 chips.
.PP
The USB SIO2PC (sometimes incorrectly called SIO2USB) from AtariMax is
\fBNOT\fR supported, though support is planned for future versions
of AtariSIO/atariserver.
.PP
The old two-chip SIO2PC interface (with a MAX232 and an LS368)
is NOT supported, and probably never will be.
.PP
All Atari 8\-bit computers (400/800, XL, and XE series) are supported.

.SH
AUTHOR
Matthias Reichl <\fBhias@horus.com\fR>
.PP
Man page by B. Watson <\fBurchlay@urchlay.com\fB>

.SH
SEE ALSO
\&\fIatarixfer\fR\|(1), \&\fIdir2atr\fR\|(1), \&\fIadir\fR\|(1).
.PP
AtariSIO home page: \fBhttp://www.horus.com/~hias/atari/\fR
