.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001 Partition Image Team
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
.\" document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License,
.\" Version 1.1 or any later version published by the Free Software
.\" Foundation; with no Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and
.\" with no Back-Cover Texts. 
.\"
.ig
A copy of the GNU Free Documentation License is available in the
Debian package in the file /usr/share/doc/m17n-docs/copyright.
..
.ig
A copy of the GNU Free Documentation License is available in the 
Debian source package in the file debian/copyright.
..
.TH PARTIMAGE "1" "30 May, 2002" "SlackBuilds.org" "Partition Image Manual"
.SH NAME
partimage \- back up and restore disk partitions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B partimage
.RB [ " \-bcdehimMnoSvwy " ]
.RB [ \-B\ 'pattern\ response\ string' ]
.RB [ \-z\ compresslevel ]
.RB [ \-V\ volumesize ]
.RB [ \-f\ actionatend ]
.RB [ \-s\ server ]
.RB [ \-p\ port ]
.RB [ \-a\ mountoptions ]
.RB [ \-U\ username ]
.RB [ \-P\ password ]
.RB [ \-g\ loglevel ]
[ 
.I "save"
.I "device"
.I "image_file"
]
.br 
.B partimage
.RB [ " \-bcdehimMnoSvwy " ]
.RB [ \-B\ 'pattern\ response\ string' ]
.RB [ \-z\ compresslevel ]
.RB [ \-V\ volumesize ]
.RB [ \-f\ actionatend ]
.RB [ \-s\ server ]
.RB [ \-p\ port ]
.RB [ \-a\ mountoptions ]
.RB [ \-U\ username ]
.RB [ \-P\ password ]
.RB [ \-g\ loglevel ]
[ 
.I "restore"
.I "device"
.I "image_file/'stdin'"
]
.br 
.B partimage
[
.I "restmbr"
.I "image_file"
]
.br 
.B partimage
[
.I "imginfo"
.I "image_file"
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIpartimage\fR backs up disk partitions into image files and restores them.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-z val,   --compress val
Set image file compression level:
.br
val=0: don't compress: very fast but very big image file
.br
val=1: compress using gzip: fast and small image file (default)
.br
val=2: compress using bzip2: very slow and very small image file
.TP
.B \-c,   --nocheck
Don't check the partition before saving.
.TP
.B \-o,   --overwrite
Overwrite the existing image file without confirmation.
.TP
.B \-d,   --nodesc
Don't ask any description for the image file.
.TP 
.B \-V vol,  --volume vol
Split image into multiple volumes files. vol will be the size in KB of volumes.
.TP 
.B \-w,   --waitvol
Wait for a confirmation after each volume change.
.TP 
.B \-e,   --erase
Erase empty blocks on restore with zero bytes.
.TP 
.B \-m,   --allowmnt
Don't fail if the partition is mounted. Dangerous!
.TP 
.B \-M,   --nombr
Don't create a backup of the MBR (Mast Boot Record) in the image file.
.TP 
.B \-h,   --help
Show help.
.TP 
.B \-v,   --version
Show version.
.TP 
.B \-f action,  --finish action
Action to do if finished successfully:
.br
action=0: wait (do nothing)
.br
action=1: halt (power off the computer)
.br
action=2: reboot (restart the computer)
.br
action=3: quit
.TP 
.B \-b,   --batch
batch mode: the GUI won't wait for an user action.
.TP
.B \-B 'pattern response string',  --fully-batch 'pattern response string'
full batch mode: the GUI is not being displayed. Rather status messages
are displayed as normal text.
The pattern response string has the following format:
.br
.B \'<glob-pattern>=<response-value>;...\'
.br
where the glob pattern is matched against the string
.B <window-title>/<message-text>
of the message dialogue box to be displayed. For dialog boxes with
buttons in the window, the <response> must be the exact button text.
The pattern response string usually needs to be quoted as above.
.TP 
.B \-y,   --nosync
Don't synchronize the disks at the end of the operation. Dangerous!
.TP 
.B \-s addr,   --server addr
Give partimaged server's ip address.
.TP
.B \-p port,   --port port
Give partimaged server's listening port.
.TP 
.B \-g debuglevel,   --debug debuglevel
Set the debug level to debuglevel (defaults to 1).
.TP 
.B \-n,   --nossl
Disable SSL in network mode.
.TP 
.B \-S,   --simulate
Simulation of restoration mode.
.TP 
.B \-a str, --automnt str
Automatic mount with X options. Read the doc for more details.
.TP
.B \-U name, --username=name
Username to authenticate to partimage server.
.TP
.B \-P pass, --password=pass
Password for authentication of user to partimage server.

.SH EXAMPLES
partimage -z1 -o -d save /dev/hda12 /mnt/backup/redhat-6.2.partimg.gz
.br
partimage -z1 -om save /dev/hda9 /mnt/backup/win95-osr2.partimg.gz
.br
partimage restore /dev/hda13 /mnt/backup/suse-6.4.partimg
.br
cat debian.partimg.000 debian.partimg.001 | partimage restore /dev/hda1 stdin
.br
partimage restmbr /mnt/backup/debian-potato-2.2.partimg.bz2
.br
partimage imginfo /mnt/backup/debian-potato-2.2.partimg.bz2
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR partimaged(8)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
You can read options set at compile time running 'partimage -i'.
.PP
When using batchmode, exit status is normally 0.
.SH CAVEATS
Supported file systems: Ext2/3, Reiser3, FAT16/32, HPFS, JFS, XFS, UFS(beta),
HFS(beta), NTFS(experimental)
.PP
Btrfs and Ext4 are not supported.
.PP
FAT12 will never be supported.
.SH BUGS
Refer to BUGS file to read them.
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Franck Ladurelle <ladurelf@partimage.org>
.nf
Francois Dupoux  <fdupoux@partimage.org>
