.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001 Partition Image Team
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
.\" document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License,
.\" Version 1.1 or any later version published by the Free Software
.\" Foundation; with no Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and
.\" with no Back-Cover Texts. 
.\"
.ig
A copy of the GNU Free Documentation License is available in the
Debian package in the file /usr/share/doc/m17n-docs/copyright.
..
.ig
A copy of the GNU Free Documentation License is available in the 
Debian source package in the file debian/copyright.
..
.TH partimagedusers 5 "23 June 2001" "SlackBuilds.org" "Partition Image Manual"
.SH NAME
partimagedusers \- list of allowed users.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B partimagedusers
This file lists all local users that are allowed to connect to partimaged. 
This file must belong to user partimaged runs as (normally 'partimag'), and must have permissions 
-rw------- or -r-------.
.PP
The configuration file consists of a set of lines.
All empty lines will be ignored.
Comments begin with a #, and everything on the line afterwards is ignored.
.PP
Put all allowed users on the remaining lines, one login per line.
.SH EXAMPLE
.LP
.PD .1v
.RS
.nf
#
# Sample users list for partimaged
# We only allow user2 and user6 to connect partimaged
# from partimage
user2
user6
# end of list
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR partimage(1) ,
.BR partimaged(8),
.BR partimaged-passwd(5)
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Franck Ladurelle <ladurelf@partimage.org>

