.TH "TETRINET-SERVER" "6" "2023-02-13"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.SH "NAME"
tetrinet-server \- server program for tetrinet


.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B tetrinet\-server


.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B tetrinet\-server
is a server program for
.BR tetrinet (6),
a networked version of tetris. You can use it to serve both a TetriFast and an
original server for up to 6 people to connect and play. It doesn't support any
fancy features like different channels, but still includes support for
configurable cookie mode and a small winlist.

.PP 

.SH "OPTIONS"
.B tetrinet-server
doesn't take any options at all. It reads all its settings from
.I ~/.tetrinet
on startup and creates a default file if there isn't one already there.

.SH "NOTE"

.B tetrinet\-server
does not fork into the background or run as a daemon. If you want to
run it this way, start it with a command like:

.BI\ nohup\ tetrinet\-server\ >tetsrv.log\ 2>&1\ </dev/null\ &

.SH "EXAMPLES"
This is a short explanation of the configuration file
.I ~/.tetrinet
together with its default entries. It is written after every game or when the
server quits. If it is not there, it will be created automatically.

.TP
.BI winlist\  "Alcan;0;3;1 AndrewK;0;2;1"
This is the winlist the server keeps. Each parameter consists of four
semicolon-seperated fields:
.IR Name ; Team ; Points ; Games .\  Team
is a flag which is either
.I 1
if the entry is for a team or
.I 0
if the entry is for a player.
.I Points
is just the number of points for the entry, and
.I Games
is the number of games the entry has participated.

.TP
.BI classic\  1
Sets classic mode for the game - that means, no cookies.

.TP
.BI initiallevel\  1
Sets the level in which the game will start. 

.TP
.BI linesperlevel\  2
Defines how many lines will issue a level increase.

.TP
.BI levelinc\  1
How many levels are increased per
.B linesperlevel
removed lines.

.TP
.BI averagelevels\  1
The levels of all player get averaged if this is set to
.IR 1 .

.TP
.BI speciallines\  1
How many lines must be removed to get specials.

.TP
.BI specialcount\  1
The number of specials that are added each time
.BR speciallines '
lines are removed.

.TP
.BI specialcapacity\  18
This number tells you how many specials you can hold.

.TP
.BI pieces\  "14 14 15 14 14 14 15"
Sets the likeliness of the different pieces. Must sum up to 100. The order is:
bar (dark blue), square (yellow), reverse-L (green), L (purple), Z (red), S
(light blue), and T (yellow).

.TP
.BI specials\  "18 18 3 12 0 16 3 12 18"
Sets the likeliness of the different specials. Must sum up to 100. The order
is: A, C, N, R, S, B, G, Q, O.

.TP
.BI linuxmode\  0
This setting selects whether the client should try to remain compatible with
Windows clients.  This only affects the winlist display; if
.B linuxmode
is set to
.IR 1 ,
the server will send the number of games played by each player as well as
points won.  This is set to zero by default.

.TP
.BI ipv6_only\  0
Listen on ipv6 only.


.SH "FILES"
.TP
.I ~/.tetrinet
The configuration file for
.BR tetrinet-server .


.SH "AUTHOR"
This manual page was written by Gerfried Fuchs <alfie@ist.org>,
and modified by B. Watson <urchlay@slackware.uk>.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR tetrinet (6),
.BR gtetrinet (6),
.BR tetrinetx (6).
