.TH TETRINET 6 "2023-02-13"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.

.SH NAME
tetrinet \- textmode client program for tetrinet


.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tetrinet
.RB [\| \-fancy \|]
.RB [\| \-fast \|]
.RB [\| \-log
.IR file \|]
.RB [\| \-noshadow \|]
.RB [\| \-noslide \|]
.RB [\| \-slide \|]
.RB [\| \-shadow \|]
.RB [\| \-windows \|]
.I nickname server


.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tetrinet
is a textmode client program for tetrinet, a networked version of tetris. You
can play both on TetriFast server and on the original servers with it.  Please
notice that your terminal needs to be at least 50 lines high, to be able to play it.


.SH OPTIONS
A summary of options is included below.


.TP
.B \-fancy
Use "fancy" TTY graphics.  (Note that this will slow down redraws somewhat.)


.TP
.B \-fast
Use the "tetrifast" mode to connect to the server.  This mode eliminates the
delay before a new cube appears, thus speeding the game up noticeably.  This
mode is incompatible with the classic mode and the server has to support it.
If in doubt, ask the other players.


.TP
.BI \-log\  file
Log network traffic to the given file.  All lines start with an absolute time
(seconds) in brackets.  Lines sent from the client to the server are prefixed
with ">>>", and lines from the server to the client are prefixed with "<<<".
This could be used with a utility program to replay a game later on (though
such a program is not currently included in the Tetrinet distribution.)


.TP
.B \-noshadow
Do not make pieces cast "shadows" when they are slowly falling.  (Normally the
area under piece is filled by dim dots to help to determine where the piece
would hit the ground if one would press the spacebar.)


.TP
.B \-noslide
Do not allow pieces to "slide" after being dropped with the spacebar.
(Normally, there is a short time after pressing the spacebar during which a
piece can "slide" left or right before it solidifies.)


.TP
.B \-shadow
Opposite of
.BR \-noshadow ;
make the pieces cast "shadows".  Can speed up gameplay considerably, but it can
be considered as cheating by some people since some other tetrinet clients lack
this.


.TP
.B \-slide
Opposite of
.BR \-noslide ;
allows pieces to "slide" after being dropped.  If both
.BR \-slide\  and\  \-noslide
are given,
.B \-slide
takes precedence.  If both
.BR \-windows\  and\  \-slide
are given, this overrides the "no sliding" part of
.B \-windows
without affecting the other changes in program behavior.


.TP
.B \-windows
Behave as much like the Windows version of Tetrinet as possible.  Implies
.BR \-noslide\  and\  \-noshadow .


.SH USAGE
When you start
.B tetrinet
you will find yourself in the partyline. In here you can chat with the other
players. With
.I /help
you will get the list of the server supported commands. You can switch between
three screens with
.I F1
through
.IR F3 ,
or with the
.I Tab
key.
.P
With
.I /start
you can start a game (if you are in position one). You will have to switch over
to the Fields with the
.I F1
key (an automatic switch over on game start is planned). To pause a running game
you have to enter
.I /pause
in the partyline. To restart the game you enter
.IR /unpause .
.SH CONTROLS
You can use either the arrow keys or vi\-style movement keys.
.TP
.B Left, h
Move the piece left.
.TP
.B Right, l
Move the piece right.
.TP
.B Up, k, x
Rotate clockwise.
.TP
.B Down, j
Move the piece down.
.TP
.B z
Rotate counterclockwise.
.TP
.B Space
Drop (move piece down until it hits something).
.TP
.B 1 to 6
Use special block on player number 1 to 6.
.TP
.B d
Drop (get rid of) unwanted special block.
.TP
.B t
Talk (chat).
.SH GAMEPLAY
You have to fill the lines completely, because complete lines
will get removed from the display. The more lines you can eliminate with a
single stone the better. If the play room supports specials you will eventually
see a list of letters below your playfield that you can use with the number
keys from
.I 1
to
.IR 6
for the corresponding playfield.
If you want to get rid of a special, drop it with
.IR d .
You can also chat in the playfield, to open the chat box press
.I t
(for
.BR t alk.)
That's it, more or less. 


.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Gerfried Fuchs <alfie@ist.org>,
and modified by B. Watson <urchlay@slackware.uk>.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR tetrinet-server (6),
.BR gtetrinet (6),
.BR tetrinetr (6).
