# pod source for steem.6, convert with:
# pod2man --stderr -s6 -cSlackBuilds.org -r3.2 steem.pod > steem.6

=head1 NAME

steem - the Atari STE emulator for Linux/X11

=head1 SYNOPSIS

steem [options] [disk_image_a [disk_image_b]] [cartridge] [tos_image]

steem [options] [state_file]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Steem is a Freeware Atari ST/STE emulator for Windows and Linux.

=head1 OPTIONS

=head2 Image Files

=over 4

=item B<[disk_image_a], [disk_image_b]>

Optional disk images to be used for the ST's A: and B: drives. File types supported are
ST/MSA/DIM/STT/ZIP/RAR. If 2 disks are specified, the first will be ST drive A: and the second drive B:.

=item B<[cartridge]>

Optional name of a cartridge image (.STC) to be loaded.

=item B<[state_file]>

state file: previously saved state file (.STS) to load. If none is specified, Steem will
load "auto.sts" provided the relevant option is checked in the Options dialog.

=item B<[tos_image]>

TOS image file to use. By default, this is set in steem.ini and does not need setting on the
command line. For most games and applications, the TOS image should be the UK v1.02 image
(tos102.img).

=back

=head2 Switches

Options are case-independent and can be prefixed by -, --, / or nothing.

=over 4

=item B<NOSHM>

disable use of Shared Memory.

=item B<NOSOUND>

no sound output.

=item B<SOF=<n>>

set sound output frequency to <n> Hz.

=item B<PABUFSIZE=<n>>

set PortAudio buffer size to <n> samples.

=item B<FONT=<string>>

use a different font.

=item B<HELP>

print help message and quit.

=item B<INI=<file>>

use <file> instead of steem.ini to initialise options.

=item B<TRANS=<file>>

use <file> instead of searching for Translate.txt or Translate_*.txt to translate the GUI
text.

=back

All of these options (except INI= and TRANS=) can be changed from the GUI once steem is running. It
is easiest just to run steem and play with the GUI.

=head1 FILES

=over 4

=item B</usr/bin/steem>

Shell script wrapper that sets up the environment for the actual steem binary.

=item B</usr/libexec/steem>

Actual steem binary. Don't run directly, as it doesn't behave in a very Linux-friendly way.

=item B<~/.steem/>

Directory steem executes in. Contains steem.ini and all save-state files, including auto.sts.

=back

=head1 AUTHORS

Steem was written by Anthony and Russell Hayward.

This man page and the steem wrapper script were written by B. Watson, for the SlackBuilds.org
project (but may be used by anyone)
