# pod2man --stderr -r2.7ck9 -s1 -cSlackBuilds.org mosaic-ck.pod > mosaic-ck.1

=pod

=head1 NAME

mosaic-ck - updated, unsupported fork of the ancient and venerable NCSA Mosaic web browser

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<mosaic-ck> [-mono] [-color] [-nd] [-geometry I<geom>] [-display I<disp>] [-install] [-iconic] [I<url>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Mosaic is widely considered the grandfather of the modern web
browser. Developed at NCSA, it was the first Web browser to win widespread
use and acceptance. The last release of Mosaic was in 1997.

mosaic-ck is a fork of Mosaic, with several features that allow it
to work as a basic, no-frills browser on the modern WWW. Think of it
as "lynx with images". There is no support for cookies, SSL, Java,
Javascript, Flash, stylesheets, or frames. Table support is optional
(and doesn't work well). Unicode/UTF-8 is partially supported.

=head1 OPTIONS

Unknown options are ignored. If more than one URL is given, only the first is used.

=over

=item -mono

Starts in monochrome mode. Doesn't seem to actually work.

=item -color

Starts in color mode. This is the default anyway.

=item -nd

No defaults: don't use existing X resources. See I<README.resources.html>.

=item -geometry I<geom>

Starting position and size of window. I<geom> is a standard X geometry
specifier, e.g. B<640x480+0+0>.

=item -display I<disp>

Connect to specified X display. Default is to use the B<DISPLAY> option in
the environment.

=item -install

Install own colormap. Obsolete unless you're using an X server with 256 or
fewer colors.

=item -iconic

Start the application minimized.

=back

=head1 FILES

=over

=item /etc/X11/app-defaults/Mosaic

Default X resources, for specifying options like fonts and default window geometry.
Can be overridden by the user's B<~/.Xdefaults> or B<~/.Xresources>.
If this file doesn't exist, built-in defaults are used instead.

=item ~/.mosaic

Preferences, history, annotations, etc are saved here. May also contain these
optional config files:

=over

=item mosaic-imageselect-sites

Optional rules for whether to immediately load, delay loading, or not load images
from particular sites. Might be useful for ad blocking.

=item mosaic-spoof-agents

List of options for the B<Options> -> B<Agent Spoofs> sub-menu.

=item mosaic-user-defs

Used to define custom actions. Example contents of this file might be:

	Google Search
	GET:http://google.com/search?q=__string__

To use, highlight some text, then right-click and select B<User> -> B<Google Search>.

=back

See /usr/doc/mosaic-ck-@VERSION@/sample_dotfiles for commented examples of
the above files.

=back

=head1 AUTHORS

NCSA Mosaic credits:

 =============================================================================
 Scott Powers    spowers@ncsa.uiuc.edu \        The N.C.S.A. X Mosaic
 Kristin Buxton  kbuxton@uiuc.edu       \         Development Team
 Dan Pape        dpape@ncsa.uiuc.edu     >
 Tommy Reilly    tpreilly@uiuc.edu      /  Comments? Suggestions? Problems?
 Brian Swetland  swetland@uiuc.edu     /       mosaic-x@ncsa.uiuc.edu
 =============================================================================

mosaic-ck branch maintained by Cameron Kaiser. See homepage at
http://www.floodgap.com/retrotech/machten/mosaic/

This man page written by B. Watson for the SlackBuilds.org project.
