=pod

=head1 NAME

B<tokenize_asoft> - convert ASCII into tokenized Applesoft

B<asoft_detoken> - convert tokenized Applesoft into ASCII

B<integer_detoken> - convert tokenized Apple Integer BASIC to ASCII

B<dos33_text2ascii> - convert Apple II text files to UNIX

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<command> < input > output

=head1 DESCRIPTION

These programs act as filters, reading from standard input and writing
to standard output. None of them take any arguments or options.

B<tokenize_asoft> acts like the Applesoft interpreter, in that it does
no syntax checking while tokenizing (in Applesoft, syntax checking is
done at runtime only). Each line requires a line number (no direct mode
statements). The output file can be written to an Apple disk image with
B<dos33>. Remember that BASIC programs use filetype A.

B<asoft_detoken> and B<integer_detoken> act like the LIST commands
from Applesoft and Apple Integer BASIC, respectively. They expect
well-formed tokenized code, and may segfault or enter an infinite loop
if fed invalid input. The output of these commands is a UNIX (not Apple II)
text file.

B<dos33_text2ascii> converts Apple II text files into standard UNIX
text. The conversion is very simple: \r is converted to \n, and the
high bit of each character is cleared. A side effect of this is that,
if the input is already 7-bit ASCII with UNIX line endings, it will be
passed through unmodified.

There is no tokenize_integer command. There's also no dos33_ascii2text,
but 7-bit ASCII UNIX text files can be converted with B<tr(1)>, something
like:

tr '\n\040-\177' '\215\240-\377'

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item dos33fsprogs(1)

=item a2tools(1)

=back

=head1 WEBSITE

http://www.deater.net/weave/vmwprod/apple/

=head1 AUTHORS

B<dos33fstools> written by Vince Weaver <vince _at_ deater.net>.

This manual page written by B. Watson for the SlackBuilds.org project,
but it may be used by anyone.
