.TH "gnsu" 8 "Dec 11, 2024" "George Vlahavas"

.SH NAME
.P
gnsu \- Gnsu's Not SU
.SH SYNOPSIS
.P
\fBgnsu\fR [\fISUDOOPTIONS\fR] \fICOMMAND\fR [\fICOMMANDOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
\fBgnsu\fR allows a permitted user to execute a \fIcommand\fR with superuser privileges, or as any other user. \fBgnsu\fR shows a graphical dialog requesting the user password to allow the execution of the specified command.
.P
As \fBgnsu\fR uses \fBsudo\fR as its backend, the password that you need to provide is your current user's password, \fInot\fR the \fIroot\fR user password. In any case, the user name whose password you need to enter is shown in the gnsu graphical dialog.
.P
The user, or a group the user is part of, has to be allowed access to launching applications using \fBsudo\fR. This can be accomplished by editing the \fB/etc/sudoers\fR file using the \fBvisudo\fR command. For example, adding the following line somewhere in the \fB/etc/sudoers\fR file will allow user \fIgeorge\fR to run any command using \fBsudo\fR and by extension, \fBgnsu\fR:
.P
george ALL=(ALL) ALL
.P
Note that you can use any option that \fBsudo\fR has with \fBgnsu\fR, as \fBgnsu\fR passes all arguments it is given to \fBsudo\fR. For example, you can use the \fBsudo\fR option \fB\-u\fR to run a command as another user, instead of running it as the superuser, which is the default behaviour. Consult the \fBsudo\fR man page for more details about those options.
.SH GENERAL OPTIONS

.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Prints a usage message briefly summarizing all command\-line options
and exits.

.SH WEBSITE
.P
https://github.com/gapan/gnsu
.SH AUTHORS
.P
gnsu was written by George Vlahavas <vlahavas~at~gmail~dot~com>
.SH SEE ALSO
.P
\fBsudo\fR(8), \fBsu\fR(8), \fBvisudo\fR(8), \fBsudoers\fR(5)

