# pod source for generator-gtk.1
# build man page with:
# pod2man -s6 -r0.35r4 --stderr -nGENERATOR-GTK -c'SlackBuilds.org'

=pod

=head1 NAME

generator-gtk - Sega Genesis/Megadrive emulator

=head1 SYNOPSIS

generator-gtk B<[options]> B<[rom-file]>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

generator-gtk is a platform independent Sega Genesis/Megadrive emulator
with a GTK+2 user interface, using SDL for display/audio/input.

generator-gtk is a modified version of Generator by James Ponder based
on version 0.35. It is known to work on FreeBSD, NetBSD and Linux.

generator-gtk has some features not found in original Generator:

=over


=item -

Support for BZIP2, GZIP and ZIP compressed ROMs i.e., no more manual decompression or wasted disk space. Yay!

=item -

Support for X11's XVideo hardware acceleration by SDL for faster and smoother graphics.

=item -

Fullscreen support with or without the classic color frame.

=item -

SDL audio support (in favour of OSS Audio) which means you can use ESound and others for sharing the sound device among other applications.

=item -

Optional mute playing i.e., if you don't have a soundcard or the soundcard is busy you can still play.

=item -

Support for 48kHz sample rate (needs driver support).

=item -

Automagic CPU usage reduction which is especially cool for notebooks. The unpatched Generator uses more or less as much CPU as it can get even if needs far less than 10% on any modern system.

=item -

Working support for Game Genie codes.

=back

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item -a

Arcade mode. Start emulation immediately, in fullscreen. Only useful
if a ROM file is also provided on the command line. This option is very
useful with frontends.

=item -d

Debug mode. This is for debugging emulated ROM code. This option adds a
Debug menu item to the UI, with options for disassembling RAM and ROM,
and a console that displays the machine registers and offers breakpoints
and single-stepping.

Note: The debug console can still be activated without the B<-d> option
(by pressing control-D), however the disassembler will not be available.

=item -r I<region>

Set region to B<europe>, B<japan>, or B<usa>. Default: autodetected, or
read from config file. This option should only be needed to work around
broken or mis-detected ROMs.

=item -w I<work-dir>

Set work directory. Default: current directory.

=item -c I<config-file>  

Use alternative config file. Default: B<~/.genrc>.

=back

=head1 FILES

=over

=item ~/.genrc

Default config file (may be changed with B<-c> option). This file is
created when the Emulation -> Options -> Save button is pressed, and
(if it exists) is loaded when B<generator-gtk> starts up. The file is
human-editable and well-commented, although users are expected to use
the Options dialog to change the settings.

=item ROM files

ROM types supported: .rom or .smd interleaved (autodetected). ROM files
may be compressed with bzip2, gzip, or zip.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item Original Generator manual:

http://www.squish.net/generator/manual.html

This is the documentation for unmodified Generator 0.35. Much of the
information in the original manual doesn't apply to B<generator-gtk>.

=item Christian Biere's generator-gtk documentation:

http://www.squish.net/generator/cbiere/generator/

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Generator is (c) James Ponder 1997-2003, all rights reserved.

generator-gtk is a modified version of generator, by Christian Biere.

This man page written by B. Watson for the SlackBuilds.org project,
but it may be used by anyone.
