.TH HEROES "6" "January 23, 2023" "Heroes 0.21" "SlackBuild.org"
.SH NAME
Heroes \- a game like Nibbles or Tron, just better
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B heroes
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
Heroes is a game similar to the "Tron" and "Nibbles" games of yore
but includes many graphical improvements and new game features.
.PP
Mandatory arguments to long options are mandatory for short options too.
.SS "General options:"
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
display version number
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
display this help
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
don't print warning messages
.TP
\fB\-Q\fR, \fB\-\-really\-quiet\fR
don't even print error messages
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR=\fICHANNELS\fR
enable or disable debugging channels
(see \fB\-\-list\fR=\fIdebug\fR for available channels)
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-list\fR=\fIWORD\fR
show some internal information; WORD can be
\&'debug', 'resources', 'sound-drivers' or
\&'sound-tracks'
.SS "Sound options:"
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-driver\fR=\fIN[\fR,OPTIONS]
use Nth driver for sound output (0:autodetect)
(see \fB\-\-list\fR=\fIsound\-drivers\fR for available Ns)
.TP
\fB\-S\fR, \fB\-\-no\-sound\fR
disable sound
.TP
\fB\-X\fR, \fB\-\-no\-sfx\fR
disable sound-effects
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-mono\fR
non-stereo output
.TP
\fB\-8\fR, \fB\-\-8bits\fR
8bits sound output
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-high\-quality\fR
high quality mixer
.SS "Display options:"
.TP
\fB\-G\fR, \fB\-\-gfx\-options\fR=\fIOPTIONS\fR
pass OPTIONS to the display driver
.TP
\fB\-W\fR, \fB\-\-windowed\fR
run in a window (disable full screen mode)
.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-even\-lines\fR
display only even-lines
.SS "Miscellaneous options:"
.TP
\fB\-\-cpu\-off\fR
disable computer opponents
.TP
\fB\-\-default\-scores\fR
restore default scores file
.TP
\fB\-\-default\-options\fR
restore default options file
.TP
\fB\-\-default\-saves\fR
restore default saves file
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-swap\-sides\fR
swap sides in two player mode
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-double\-fx\fR
disable combination of rotozoom and waves
.TP
\fB\-g\fR, \fB\-\-go\fR
skip the introduction
.TP
\fB\-J\fR, \fB\-\-no\-joystick\fR
disable joystick handling
.PP
These options can be set in your file ~/.heroes/heroesrc (which is read
before parsing other command line options) using a line like the following:
.IP
Options: \fB\-gs\fR \fB\-d3\fR,buffer=11,count=4
.PP
Visit http://heroes.sourceforge.net/ for news, documentation, and updates.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <heroes-bugs@lists.sourceforge.net>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2002  Alexandre Duret-Lutz, Romuald Genevois,
Alexandre Liverneaux and Philippe Meisburger.
.br
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
The full documentation for
.B heroes
is maintained as a Texinfo manual.  If the
.B info
and
.B heroes
programs are properly installed at your site, the command
.IP
.B info heroes
.PP
should give you access to the complete manual.
