### Admins: *please* don't remove this file, it's supposed to be in git,
### so I can update the man page when it needs it. It was in my submission
### tarball, and somehow never showed up in the SBo repo. Please don't
### make me go search my backups for it again.

# pod source for icb man page
# pod2man -s1 -r5.2.0b1+git20170501 --stderr -nICB -cSlackBuilds.org < icb.pod > icb.1

=pod

=head1 NAME

icb - a color-capable International/Internet CB chat client

=head1 SYNOPSIS

icb B<[options]>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

ICB (International CB, or Internet CB) is a teleconferencing system that
allows Internet users to participate in realtime online discussions.

=head1 OPTIONS

Options may be abbreviated to the shortest unique prefix (generally
one or two characters). Options requiring an argument must have a space
before the argument.

=over

=item -nickname I<nick>

Sign on with nickname I<nick> (default: see B<ENVIRONMENT> below).

=item -password I<pass>

Set password to I<pass>. Note: specifying a password on the command line implies -clear.

=item -password -

Prompt for password.

=item -group I<group>

Sign on into group I<group>.

=item -server I<name>

Connect to server named I<name>.

=item -host I<host>

Connect to server on host I<host> (default: B<default.icb.net>).

=item -port I<port>

Try to connect to port I<port> (default: 7326, or 7327 when using SSL).

=item -bindhost I<host>

Try to bind outgoing connect to host I<host> (default: 0.0.0.0).

=item -SSL

Use SSL.

=item -list

List known servers, in order.

=item -clear

Wipe args from command line.

=item -who

See who's on; don't sign on.

=item -restricted

Restricted mode. Disables logging, external shell commands, and
the tcl commands I<exec>, I<print>, I<file>, and I<source>.

=item -color

Enable ANSI color mode (disabled by default).

=item -help

Display built-in help message.

=back

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over

=item ICBNAME

=item FNNAME

=item FORUMNAME

If the B<-nickname> option is not given, these environment variables
are checked in the order listed. The first one that's set is used as
the nickname on the server. If none are set, the login name on the local
system is used as the nickname.

=item EDITOR

=item VISUAL

If EDITOR (or VISUAL, if EDITOR is not set) is set to "emacs" (or a
path ending in "emacs", such as "/usr/bin/emacs"), icb will use emacs
editing mode by default, otherwise it will use vi mode. However, the
default I<system.icbrc> contains "oset editmode emacs" which overrides
this variable. To use the environment, add "ounset editmode" to your
I<~/.icb/icbrc>.

=item SHELL

The shell to use when running external commands from within icb, via
the I<c_chell> command (see B</help primitives>). If not set, B</bin/sh>
is used.

=back

=head1 FILES

=over

=item /usr/share/cicb/icbserverdb

List of ICB servers. Used by the B<-list> and B<-server> options.

=item /usr/share/cicb/system.icbrc

System-wide ICB startup script, in TCL. Contains many helpful comments.

=item $HOME/.icb/icbrc

Per-user startup script, sourced by system.icbrc if found (unless the
sysadmin has removed that code from B<system.icbrc>!)

=back

=head1 AUTHORS

ICB is based on Sean Casey's ForumNet ("forum" or "fn") 0.10, with his
permission. The new name was devised by Mark Giaquinto and John Atwood
DeVries. The actual code here is based on release 5.0.9 of the Tcl C-Icb
client. It has been severely modified by a loose knit group of users who
can't seem to part with the traditional client code.

The parts of the code that are left over from ForumNet are Copyright (c)
1990 by Carrick Sean Casey.

The parts of the code that are left over from icb 5.0.9 is Copyright (c)
1993 by Mark J. Reed.

That said, cicb 5.1 is nearly a complete rewrite of the original code by
the cicb-workers committee, which includes, but is not limited to: Erik
Fichtner, Phil Stracchino, Michel Hoche-Mong, and Felix Lee.

This man page written by B. Watson for the SlackBuilds.org project, and may
be used by anyone.

=head1 LICENSE

This code has been placed under the GNU Public License with Mark Reed's
blessing. Please see the file "COPYING" for further information.

=head1 SEE ALSO

icb's extensive built-in help, accessed by the B</help> command.

The ICB web site, B<http://www.icb.net/>.
